The below transaction was originally run as a conventional loan, but did not receive an AUS approval. We don’t allow conventional manual underwrites. The loan was switched to FHA and the LO received an automated underwriting approval. Below are the details shown on the AUS Tracking screen in Encompass. 
LO Response: "I discussed the characteristics of the FHA loan with the borrower, including MIP.  We reviewed several loan products and the borrower liked the FHA loan due to the 3.5% down payment, as well as it having better rate pricing than a convention
Conventional was brand new, LO’s didn’t have access to Encompass; Offered both client Conv, but it was stated that they’d have to go to a new LO; Both customers had developed good rapport with Ryan and Brakken (both PC and excellent LO’s with good NPS track records and are known for customer service)’ Both customers chose to stay on track with their LO and finish the loan FHA.
Conventional was brand new, LO’s didn’t have access to Encompass; Offered both client Conv, but it was stated that they’d have to go to a new LO; Both customers had developed good rapport with Ryan and Brakken (both PC and excellent LO’s with good NPS track records and are known for customer service)’ Both customers chose to stay on track with their LO and finish the loan FHA.
LO Response: "I discussed the characteristics of the FHA loan with the borrower, including MIP.  We reviewed several loan products and the borrower liked the FHA loan due to the 3.5% down payment, as well as it having better rate pricing than a conventional."
At 96.5% LTV this product would have been advantageous to the consumer. A conventional product would have had PMI and been very similar. It is likely pricing would have been better on the FHA product and this would not have been a disadvantage to the consumer.


